Morning.
Before we start this session,
I want to talk a bit about the session
that's going to be coming after this.
Because Xsan is a brand-new
technology and we have tons of
things we wanted to talk about,
we split the content into two sessions.
The first one is this one,
introducing Xsan.
And the second one is
the one right after this,
10:30 in this room, Xsan in-depth.
So if you're here to learn about
what Xsan offers and what it
takes to deploy and manage it,
or to learn how to program for it,
we highly recommend that
you attend both sessions.
And here, I just wanted to quickly
review what we're going to talk
about in these two sessions.
So in this session,
we're going to start off by talking
about why you may need a Xsan
file system for other benefits.
And we're going to spend a pretty
good chunk of time talking about
all the key features of Xsan,
everything from the basic
file system to the management,
to performance,
to cross-platform support.
And we're going to cover
what it takes to deploy Xsan.
Basically,
we're going to go over the basic hardware
configuration with a few examples.
And then to conclude the session,
we're going to talk about different
software and hardware product
Apple offers to build Xsan and also
build different solutions on top of it.
So that should keep us busy for
next hour to hour and a half.
And then at 10:30,
We're going to talk about how Xsan
works from an engineering perspective.
So, for example,
we're going to talk about things
like what gets passed on wire
when you make a file system call.
And we're going to spend lots of time
talking about the administration of Xsan.
In fact, we're going to have a demo
of Xsan admin software,
using it to set up SAN from scratch,
or almost from scratch.
So that should be pretty fun.
Right, and we're going to talk about
different aspects of administration,
such as command line tools.
Then we're going to talk about
a few tips for developers,
things they should watch out
for when accessing Xsan volumes,
things such as scalability
and locking and other issues.
And lastly, we're going to talk
about Xsan Developer API.
We're going to have a demo for a couple
sample applications using that API,
and it's pretty visual,
so it should be pretty entertaining.
So with that,
I would like to introduce the
speaker of the first session,
Tom Gaugen, Director of Server and
Storage Software from
Worldwide Product Marketing.
Tom Gaugen: Thanks, Kazu.
[Transcript missing]
Now, what came out and came into vogue
a few years ago were NAS devices,
network-attached storage.
The reason these are very interesting is
that these are purpose-built appliances
for sharing storage over the network.
So, in a sense, it's just like a
direct-attached storage device,
except that it's storage
with an embedded file server.
It's a good way to think about it.
So, it has some really great advantages,
one of which is typically NAS devices
are extremely easy to deploy,
very quick to get them up and running.
And that's because they
are single-purpose devices.
Their whole point is to
share storage on the network.
At the same time,
they do suffer from some of the
same performance and scalability
limitations as direct-attached storage.
Now, there's a whole range of
very sophisticated things
that some companies offer.
In terms of storage
virtualization services,
where they can actually make
multiple NAS devices appear like,
and on the network appear
like a single device,
or they can eliminate some of
these single points of failure.
But it is fairly complex to
deploy the storage virtualization
software to accomplish this.
Now, in a storage area network,
this is where multiple storage devices
are attached to a fiber channel network.
That's really what a storage
area network is all about.
Now, fiber channel today,
as well as iSCSI.
You could use a different
type of network called iSCSI.
This is SCSI protocol over IP,
over Ethernet.
But for all intents and purposes today,
when I talk about a Xsan,
I'm going to be talking about
a Xsan based on fiber channel.
So we have multiple storage devices
connected to a fiber channel switch,
and then we have multiple servers that
are able to access those storage devices.
Now, a key thing is that they essentially
access the storage devices,
and in a sense,
they share the storage devices,
but they don't share the
data on the storage devices.
And I'll get into a little bit
of detail on that right now.
So, why a Xsan file system?
Well, as I said,
at Xsan you have multiple computers
accessing the same storage device.
In the example here,
we've got an XServe RAID connected
to a fiber channel switch.
The XServe RAID presents
two RAID controllers,
hence the two fiber channel
lines coming down from the top,
and the fiber channel switch to the
three XServes that are shown here.
These three XServes are
connected via fiber channel
to the fiber channel switch.
And they can see the XServe RAID.
Each one of them can.
In fact, they could take that storage
from the XServe RAID,
and they can reshare it using network
protocols such as AFP-SMB or NFS across
the network to these clients.
So they can do the exact same
thing that a NAS device or
direct-attached storage can do.
However, the challenge with this,
before you have a Xsan file system,
is that each RAID set
is effectively a volume,
and the volumes are connected
separately to each one of the servers.
So you have A, B, and C up in there,
denoted by the colors, and A, B,
and C are mounted by
each of those servers.
Only one server can
mount one file system.
So a server could mount
multiple file systems,
but the file system, or the A, or the B,
or the C,
can only be mounted by one server.
It can't be mounted by two
servers at the same time.
So, each RAID set is mapped to a server.
That's a process called
provisioning in the Xsan world.
And that's what that's all about.
The reason a Xsan file
system is interesting is you
eliminate these data silos.
Keep in mind that Server A over
here only sees the data in Volume A.
Server B only sees the data in Volume B.
Server C only sees the data in Volume C.
That's before a Xsan file system.
After a Xsan file system,
you can actually have data A, B, and C,
as denoted up above, in a single volume.
So this would be a single 3,
3.5 terabyte volume on the XServe RAID.
And that volume can be seen
by each of these servers.
So this is kind of a
subtle difference between
network-attached storage and SANs,
in that the file system used for a
SAN can actually be used for a server.
And that's what we're
going to talk about today.
So, basically,
the volumes created by that file
system can actually be mounted
directly with direct block-level
access by each of the servers or
desktops that's attached to the SAN.
So, multiple computers,
all three of these computers,
can read and write to the
same volume at the same time.
And this is block-level access.
Very, very different from, in a sense,
from when you have a network file system.
So, it's sharing a file system
to multiple computers,
but final arbitration,
block-level access to the
volume that it's sharing,
is arbitrated by the file server itself,
by that single file server.
This is very different.
And, of course,
it could re-share that volume
to all of these clients as well.
So now we have three servers
able to share the data that's on
that volume out to the network.
Now, the nice thing about a Xsan
file system is it's very,
very easy to scale.
So you want to add more storage.
You've gone past 3 and 1/2 terabytes,
and you want to go to 5
or 6 terabytes of storage.
You literally add the storage in.
You can grow the file system.
And all of the systems that are
attached directly to the file
system simply see a larger volume
with more space for more data.
Now, again,
the other thing you can do is you
can add more servers to the Xsan
as well and share the data in the
volume through more file servers.
So you can literally get more
network performance out of the
Xsan than you would get with having
a single server sharing a volume.
Because now you have 3, 4, 5, or 6,
as we show here,
servers able to share the data
that's on the same volume.
So that's why a Xsan file
system is so important.
A file system is very interesting.
A little overview of Xsan.
Xsan is for high-performance
storage networking.
So it's very, very fast.
In fact, when you set up an Xsan
system properly configured,
it'll be,
I don't say this to a lot of you,
it'll be much,
much faster than the internal
disk drive on your system.
In fact, you will get whatever the
storage architecture that
you deploy can give you.
Xsan is very,
very lightweight in terms of its
overhead on the storage infrastructure.
It has a high availability architecture.
So you can imagine a system like
this is going to be deployed in
mission-critical environments.
We've done a lot of things to make
sure that when you deploy it that way,
if any single failure happens
somewhere on the system,
we've got you covered.
And I'm going to take you
through some of that as well.
Xsan provides some really,
really interesting
volume management tools.
And that's where we get into some
of the nomenclature I mentioned.
And I'm going to walk
you through some of that.
I'm going to walk you through a little
bit of the volume management tools and
show you what we're talking about there.
And then later on,
I know the guys are going to show you
how to actually set up a Xsan volume.
[Transcript missing]
So from an HA perspective,
we do a couple of things.
There's a thing called
a metadata controller,
and I'm going to show you a
little bit more about what that's
all about in subsequent slides.
But the metadata controller is
like the traffic cop for the Xsan.
What the metadata controller does
is that any time a computer on
the Xsan wants to open a file,
read a file, write to a file,
it first talks to the
metadata controller.
And it says, you know,
can I open that file?
I'd like a read/write
access to this file XYZ.
And the metadata
controller checks and says,
okay, no one else has got
read/write access right now,
so here you go,
you can have read/write access.
And, you know,
here's where the file is located.
But note the difference
from a network file system.
It doesn't say here's the file.
It says here's where the file is located.
And then the computer that requested
the file goes in over Fibre Channel,
and then it goes directly to the
storage at the block level and
reads or writes to that file.
So that's what metadata
controller failover is all about,
is providing a secondary
metadata controller.
You can imagine if the
metadata controller fails,
then you've got a real
problem on your network,
on your SAN,
because nobody knows if they're
allowed to have access to a file,
where the file's located, and so forth.
Xsan comes out of the box with
support for metadata controllers.
So what does a metadata
controller failover?
If any metadata controller
on your SAN fails,
the Xsan computers,
the computers running Xsan,
will get together,
and they will nominate another one
of these computers to take over the
duties of the metadata controller.
They will do that automatically,
and that will happen within
seconds of a detected failure
in the metadata controller.
So that's what metadata
controller failover is all about.
One other added note about it:
Because we ship Xsan with the
metadata controller software built in,
unlike a lot of other SAN vendors,
any Xsan system connected to the
SAN can be the metadata controller.
So we support something
called cascading failover.
This means if the second
metadata controller,
if that person who stumbled into the
machine and kicked the power cord out,
stumbles into the next metadata
controller and kicks the power cord out,
then the next system on
the SAN will take over.
And so as long as any one system,
any one Xsan system is up and running,
you have access to your data.
We think that's extremely
important with these systems.
Of course the file system is journaled.
You'd expect that.
And that's why we can actually
recover the file system
within seconds of a failure.
The other metadata controller takes over,
and the other access is the
file system runs the journals,
and you're up and running within seconds.
We support something called
fiber channel multipathing.
So some of you may have
purchased an XServe,
and you may have gotten the fiber
channel card that goes along with it.
We have a fiber channel host bus adapter,
or HBA, that goes into the machine so
that you can connect a fiber
channel cable into the XServe,
or into a Power Mac G5.
The thing is that that card
actually supports two connectors.
And you could actually run both
those connectors to the fiber channel
switch where they can see the storage.
[Transcript missing]
From a volume management perspective,
we support a range of things,
and I'm going to walk you through a
little bit with this with some pictures.
Storage pooling, so we group multiple
storage devices together,
really multiple RAID devices typically,
and you'll hear me,
you'll hear others refer to them as LUNs,
logical unit numbers.
A LUN is simply a logical grouping
of storage that's hidden behind some
form of RAID controller typically.
And so, for example, with the XSERV RAID,
as many of you know,
it has two RAID controllers in it,
seven drives on either side attached
to each of the RAID controllers.
If you took the seven
over here and just did,
say, RAID 5 across the mall
to that RAID controller,
the seven over here,
RAID 5 across them to that controller,
when you looked at it across
the fiber channel network with
Xsan's or with Xsan's admin tools,
you would see two LUNs.
And these two LUNs can then be
grouped together in something
we call the storage pool.
In fact, you can group multiple LUNs
across multiple devices
into multiple storage pools,
in fact.
So I'll show you how we can do that
sort of thing and what that's all about.
We can dynamically scale volumes,
as I mentioned earlier.
So you can grow these volumes.
We support things like volume
mapping and affinities.
I'm going to go into a
little bit of detail on this.
You can decide with the Xsan admin
tools which systems connected to the
SAN are able to mount which volumes,
and you can have that mount occur.
You can force that mount or force that
mount right from your admin console.
As I mentioned,
the admin console works remotely,
so you can actually run that on a
PowerBook or an iBook and connect
into your Xsan remotely and take
care of that type of management.
Affinities I'll go through.
It's better to do a diagram for
that because it becomes really,
really clear what affinities
are all about with the diagram.
We do have offline defragmentation tools.
Now, the file system is designed,
and by design,
designed to minimize if not
eliminate fragmentation.
But there are, of course,
certain operations that can happen
on a file system that are sort
of out at the fringes that can
cause some amount of fragmentation.
And so we include the defragmentation
tools along with the product
so that you can run those if
necessary on the file system.
So let's talk about
how we create a volume.
I mentioned the XServe RAID.
I build a RAID set, as I mentioned, from,
say, those seven drives.
Format it or initialize it,
I should say RAID 5,
and I do that with the RAID admin tools.
We have to be very clear about what
tools we use with Xsan because you will
not be using disk utility with Xsan.
Disk utility is for creating HFS Plus or
UFS volumes and doing software RAID.
Xsan has its own volume format,
and so when you create an Xsan volume,
you'll be using the Xsan admin tools.
to do this.
So we create a RAID 5 LUN.
We haven't got a volume yet,
but we've got a LUN.
It shows up on Fibre Channel.
We can take multiple LUNs,
as I mentioned,
and put them into a storage pool.
And the storage pool allows
you to group multiple LUNs
that are similar to each other.
So take multiple RAID 5 LUNs.
Each LUN, say,
is one and a quarter terabytes in size,
and you group them together.
What Xsan does is automatically
stripes data across the storage pool.
So now you have this
logical grouping of storage,
this logical pool of Raid 5 lawns.
You can actually create multiple pools
and put them into a single volume.
Now, in the example I'm showing here,
we have a RAID 5 storage pool made up
of one or more RAID 5 LUNs and a RAID 1
or a mirrored set storage pool made up
of one or more RAID 1 or mirrored sets.
Okay,
and we've pooled the two things together.
We haven't pooled them together,
we've grouped them together
in a single volume.
Now some of you out there are saying,
"Well, that's kind of cool,
but where does my data go?" I mean,
does it go on the RAID 5 hardware,
does it go on the RAID 1 hardware,
just exactly where does it go?
And that's what's kind of
interesting about affinities.
So we all know the RAID 5,
in theory at least, would be a little bit
faster than the RAID 1.
Xsan is the most protected
type of storage that you have.
It's a mirrored set.
So you have fastest and most protected.
Now, what you can do is you can actually,
through affinities,
associate those storage pools
with directories or folders in the
finder or folders in that volume.
So if you had a couple
of desktops hooked up,
as I've shown here,
You can literally provide
the user with two folders.
In this case, I've called them fastest
and most protected.
You could call them work
in progress and final work,
for example.
And the work in progress
could go to the RAID 5,
and the final work
could go to the RAID 1.
So, in a sense, in reality,
affinities will really help you set
up interesting workflows across the
SAN and move data around the SAN into
the type or category or class of
storage that is relevant or most useful,
most appropriate for the type of
data that you want to store in it.
So, this is a really
interesting feature of Xsan,
and I invite you to check that out.
as well.
From a remote administration perspective,
as I mentioned, fairly easy to configure.
We do real-time monitoring.
We'll do event notifications.
We'll do things like email you
or page you in the event of a
metadata controller failover,
a fiber channel problem, a quota problem.
We support usage quotas.
We have both soft and hard quotas.
And we do have integration into LDAP.
And this is where I'll take
a little digression here,
if you'll allow me this.
From a Xsan perspective,
the file system sits underneath
the standard sort of API set,
file system API set in
Mac OS X and Mac OS X Server.
So for all intents and purposes,
it just looks like
another locally attached,
internal, if you will,
volume on your system
or drive on your system.
And this is really,
really interesting for
a couple of reasons.
Now, with a couple of caveats, too.
That internal drive looks
and behaves mostly like UFS,
follows POSIX locking semantics,
and is case-sensitive.
So all Xsan systems
will be case-sensitive.
And we are relying on all of you
to do the proper thing from a
locking standpoint in your system.
So when you open a file for
a user for read-write access,
open it.
And typically in Carbon,
this takes care of itself automatically.
But if you're doing a Cocoa app
or a Unix application,
open it and assert the
POSIX lock for that operation.
And we will adhere to that and use that
in Xsan to make sure that your data
doesn't get trampled by some other user.
Now, so that's where Xsan sits.
And the reason that's interesting
is that on our systems,
that means that you can
control access to Xsan,
to the folders and the files in Xsan,
using a directory server.
So when the person logs into the machine,
or when they remotely attach
to a server and go in using,
say, a file service,
they have an identity, a UID,
that has been given to them by
the directory server at local.
And that UID is the one that's
going to be used to log in time.
And all of the machines connected
to the directory server,
in other words,
all the machines on the Xsan
connected to the directory server,
recognize that UID.
And we'll use that UID to determine
whether or not that person has access
to a folder or file on the Xsan.
And because Xsan is
coming out in the fall,
jump ahead a little bit,
but Xsan is coming out in the fall,
right now we're adhering
to POSIX permissions,
but not ACLs on Xsan.
So we use the permissions model
that's built into Panther for that.
But that gives you some control over
who has access over data in Xsan,
gives you full integration
with an LDAP directory server,
and for that matter,
Kerberos infrastructure as well,
because we're sitting, as I said,
below the file system layer
in the operating system.
So, I mentioned a complete SAN solution
and mentioned that you need
partners to really pull this off.
So, from a hardware perspective,
we offer XServe RAID.
It will be qualified on XServe RAID.
It will be qualified with
the XServe G4 and G5.
It will also be qualified with the
Power Mac G5 and with Power Mac G4s
back to dual 800s or better.
We have our own Fibre
Channel PCI card that we're
qualifying the system with as well.
It's going to be qualified
with our professional software,
including Mac OS X, Mac OS X Server,
and many of our
professional applications.
We have worked with the
Fibre Channel switch vendors,
and we're testing with these switches.
There's a list of switches on our website
that we're testing with from Brocade,
QLogic, and Emulex.
So check those out.
And from a data management and
interoperability standpoint,
we have worked with ADIC to
ensure that you can add Windows,
Linux, and other Unix systems to the SAN.
And ADIC is supporting Xsan with
their StoreNext file system.
Well, the compatibility is with
their StoreNext file system,
and they're also supporting Xsan with
their StoreNext management suite.
Now, what that means is that you can
use their data management tools as
a foundation for something called
information lifecycle management.
And this is policy-based
storage management.
And they have some really,
really great products to do this,
and you'll be able to use those
with Xsan to do things like,
I mean,
I think of it as backup on steroids,
but basically to be able to
migrate your data to the system.
So you'll be able to migrate your
data from Tier 1 to Tier 2 storage and
migrate it all the way back to tape,
and to automate a lot of that process.
So just a little view
of how this can happen.
You can literally put XSAN on, say,
a Power Mac G5, an XServe G5,
have that connected in.
It sees the SAN volume.
There's a metadata controller,
so XSAN's up there running
on another XServe G5 as well.
But you could literally take a
couple of servers running Windows or
Linux and have those servers
connected into the SAN as well.
Now those machines would be running
the StoreNext file system from ADIC.
And you can purchase it from them.
It will install and run and allow
you to see the XSAN volumes.
And as well,
you could use the StoreNext storage
management software to back
up and maintain all of the
data in your SAN as well.
So this is a full and complete
solution that we're offering here.
Take a drink of water here,
but I want to take you through
quickly some example deployments.
And in the kind of walkthrough
of some example deployments,
I also want to show you how you,
specifically, how you set up some of the
infrastructure for Xsan.
Now, in the later session,
they're going to get right under the
covers and show you more of this,
but I want to give all of you kind of
an overview of how all of this works.
So when you're setting up an Xsan,
you need a storage device,
which is an XServe RAID.
You need a fiber channel switch.
You need, obviously, the Xsan systems,
the systems that are going
to access the storage.
And this will be servers or desktops.
And you run Xsan on each of these.
And they all connect in over fiber
channel to the storage area network.
One of these systems you're going
to denote or decide is going
to be your metadata controller.
Remember that traffic cop for the Xsan.
So, fiber channel network,
you get high speed,
you'll get on each fiber roughly,
well roughly,
you'll get the scope for 2 gigabits
or 200 megabits per second.
And we have numbers up on the
website on what the XServe rate
can actually give you sustained,
but it's on the order of 180,
190 megabytes per second
sustained throughput.
So,
Correct me, guys,
if I'm wrong on that one,
but that's my understanding
of those numbers.
So you get that out of the XServe RAID,
and you can, of course,
provide that to each of those machines.
Now, each of these systems,
I want to be very clear about this,
needs to have a copy of
Xsan running on them.
So you buy four copies of Xsan,
you put it on the four systems,
install it, get it configured using
the Xsan admin tools,
select one machine as
the metadata controller,
decide and wait which of the
other machines should actually
be the backup or standby metadata
controller if the metadata controller
fails and you're on your way.
Well, sort of.
There's a back-channel network that
needs to be deployed with Xsan.
We refer to it as the metadata network.
Now, I don't want to confuse you with
the metadata that's associated
with the spotlight technology.
The metadata we're talking about
here is file system metadata.
File system locks and locations
and all of that sort of stuff.
So, the file system metadata is moved
around on a separate metadata network.
Now, this is just a TCP/IP Ethernet
network that you set up
between all of these systems.
What it provides is really
out-of-band communications.
And the reason this is important,
and the reason it's architected this way,
is that what you're sending back and
forth with metadata is small packets.
So small requests.
I need to open up this file.
Okay, you can open up this file.
FibroChannel is really optimized
for large chunks of data.
And so,
if we were to take all the metadata
operations that would happen on a large
SAN and run them across Fibre Channel,
we'd be bogging down your
Fibre Channel network,
where all your storage performance is,
with metadata communications.
So, to optimize around this,
we put the data,
the big chunks of information,
on the storage network,
on the Fibre Channel network,
and we put the metadata
on a separate network.
Now, the actual metadata
actually lives on the SAN,
but it's accessed and cached
by the metadata controller,
and then it's controlled,
and access to it is controlled
by the metadata controller.
So, this separate, out-of-band network.
Now, I'll have a lot of people
have come up to me and said,
so do I have to use a separate
network for the metadata network?
And the answer is, while it's IP,
you don't have to use one.
But if you use your local area network,
for example,
and someone initiates a large
FTP transfer across that network,
for whatever reason,
that may inhibit some of the
metadata traffic on that network,
and that may slow down your file system.
And I almost guarantee it'll
slow down your file system,
because that will delay those packets
being sent to the metadata controller.
So, we recommend,
very strongly recommend,
is that you use a separate network
for this metadata controller network.
Now,
the good news is that you can do that,
and you can still share the data
over Ethernet when you're using,
for example, an XRF G5,
because we do have two gigabit Ethernet
connectors on the back of the XRF G5.
So use one of them for the metadata
network and use the second one
for your local area network.
And, as I mentioned,
you can then share the data using common
networking protocols to as many clients
as you want over your local network.
Now, these machines, to be clear,
the bottom ones,
the desktops that are shown here,
do not have to be running XAN.
You do not need an XAN license for them.
Of course, with Mac OS X Server,
you get an unlimited client license.
You can connect up as many clients
to do file sharing with the unlimited
client licensing as you want.
And we don't care whether
that data comes from.
If it comes from the SAN, that's great.
So, as I mentioned,
dual gigabit ethernet in the
XServe G5 to support this.
Now you could also, in another sense,
use this as the storage pool
for a web service as well,
whether that's a website,
QuickTime streaming server
or something like that,
and have internet clients
connected into them.
But in any case, there's two networks.
There's the main network where
the data transfer happens,
and there's the metadata network,
which is where the file system
does all of its operations,
with the exception of doing the
actual block level access to storage,
which happens over the
fiber channel network.
So.
When we deploy XSAN in kind of
a post-production environment,
we deploy XSAN to desktops.
And I'm sure those of you in the
audience who do a lot of work in video.
So you create a SAN volume
using multiple XSERV RAIDs,
fiber channel switch,
metadata controller,
server makes a nice metadata controller,
and then you set up the
desktops with access to the SAN.
You can also, on the same network,
put a server there,
have it reshare some of that information
using the QuickTime streaming server.
So you can imagine a workflow
where you're doing video editing,
and when, for example,
at the end of the day or at the end
of their time working on this project,
an editor makes a QuickTime movie
and posts it into a special folder
where the QuickTime streaming
server can share it out to,
say, a producer or a director who wants
to just check in over the network.
Without having to come
down to the editing bay.
And, of course,
you could put appropriate security
and access control around all of that.
So this is an example of using
XSAN in post-production workflow.
Now, the thing I'm not showing here
that you do have to set up again
is that private Ethernet network
that connects all of these systems
and the metadata controller.
So there'll be a private
Ethernet network.
You can multi-home these systems,
so you could use a second Ethernet,
you could use a second
Ethernet connection.
You can put another, an external, well,
a gigabit card into the XSERV G5,
for example,
or you could even use the airport
connection on the XSERV G5 to
connect it to the Internet or
connect it to your local network.
You want to reserve one Ethernet
port for the metadata network.
Computational clusters are another
area that we're looking at with XSAN.
And in this case,
we're showing a very large cluster.
For small clusters, as I said,
up to 64 systems can connect to the SAN.
So if you had a small cluster of 4, 16,
32 systems,
you could actually have them all
connected directly to the SAN over
fiber channel with block-level
access to a single storage pool,
which means they all can be
using the exact same data,
writing back to the exact same
location at the same time.
Now, if you have a very large deployment,
and, of course,
we use the Virginia Tech one
all the time,
1100 G5s.
Now, they, of course,
XSAN isn't available,
so they weren't able to do this.
But if they had chosen to do so,
they could have actually created
an environment where of those 1100,
say 20 of them, 25 of them,
you could pick 55 of them.
Say 55 of them were connected
into the SAN directly.
And those 55 were the head nodes for
another 20 machines in the cluster.
So the head node connected block level
fiber channel directly into the SAN.
And then what it does is
uses NFS to share the data,
or AFP, to share the data to the
other Xsers in the cluster,
the other 20 for which it's responsible.
And you create a network between
those 20 in the head node and
another 20 in the head node.
And now you've covered 1,100 machines.
And for 55 of them, they're feeding data,
or they're getting data directly
from the SAN at very high speed.
And they're able to reshare that over,
say, gigabit ethernet to another 20.
Now, I can tell you that BEAT's trying
to reshare that data over gigabit
ethernet to another 1,100.
So this is a way of more easily or
more quickly distributing the data
around a computational cluster.
So I'm going to go through a few of
our products here and run through
some of that as soon as I get a...
Another drink of water here.
I'll run through some of this and give
you an idea of the kind of products
that we're offering in this space.
And then I want to give you an
idea of why we think we can be very
successful in this space in both video,
regular storage consolidation
projects that I've shown you,
and also in computational clustering,
where price performance
is really what counts.
So, Mac OS X Server, qualified with Xsan,
delivers all sorts of great services.
I'm sure most of you caught the
earlier sessions on what the next
version of the server is all about.
We'll be qualifying
Tiger Server with Xsan as well,
when Tiger Server is
closer to availability.
Xserve G5, phenomenal performance
on a one-use server,
an amazing box,
and I'm sure you've seen some
of the sessions on that as well.
Wow.
We do offer a fiber channel PCI card.
Many of you may not have realized that.
This is a PCI card that goes
into an XServe or into a
Power Mac and delivers dual port,
2 gigabits per second on each channel.
So, it's a really, really nice card.
It says 64 bits, 66 megahertz PCI card.
Neat thing is we actually
include the cables.
And these cables on the street
would be something like $150,
$200 a piece,
but we include the cables as part
of the package for the PCI card.
We have the XServe RAID.
This is a 3.5 terabyte
solution in a 3U enclosure.
Again, very, very high speed.
If you stripe across the channels,
as it says,
over 336 megabytes per second,
striping across the two controllers.
Very easy to set up.
This is RAID setup in three easy steps.
Very, very nice solution.
This one's actually qualified
not only for Mac OS X,
Windows, and Linux.
And as we said,
it'll be qualified for Xsan.
And nice solution, $3 per gigabyte.
I have this joke I have with,
just as a digression with the guys,
who runs our server and storage hardware.
I said he should only have
three slides on XServe RAID.
The first one should say $3 per gigabyte.
The second one should
say $3 per gigabyte.
And the third one should say,
did I mention $3 per gigabyte.
It's a beautiful, beautiful box.
And Xsan, and as I mentioned, Xsan,
concurrent access, shared volumes,
up to 64 computers.
A lot of great features in there from
a high availability or HA standpoint.
Gives you direct block level,
high speed access over a
fiber channel to the storage.
Provides some really, really cool volume
management capabilities.
Comes with some great
remote administration tools.
And of course,
we have great cross platform support
with full interoperability with
the StoreNex file system from ADIC.
So really,
really complete solution there.
And we have some great server
and store support options,
and we got a lot of
questions on this yesterday,
and I just invite you to
check out the latest offerings
that we offer in that space.
I do want to run you through the prices.
The thing that's key here,
and the reason I'm running through
some of the marketing slides right now,
is that a lot of people have said to us,
look, we look at iSCSI,
we look at Fiber Channel,
we're not sure what's going to happen,
but it sure looks like
iSCSI is going to take over.
And when we look at it, we say, well,
first of all,
you'll never be doing video over iSCSI,
or not in the foreseeable future.
And in fact, it's very,
very difficult to get any kind
of high performance out of iSCSI.
And when you do,
you get into using really interesting
proprietary hardware to do that,
and that drives the expense way up.
Most people want iSCSI because
it's cheaper than Fiber Channel.
That's the clear reason why
they want that sort of thing.
So we took a look at it.
We feel that Fiber
Channel is actually ripe.
For price reduction.
And so we're going to
change this market entirely.
And so we're offering these products
at an incredibly low price compared
to anything else on the market.
Yes, I know.
So $999 for 10 server,
unlimited client license, XSERV G5,
$3,000, 10 server is included with that.
The PCI card is $500
with the cables included.
The XSERV RAID, that $11,000 price.
With everything you can put in it.
3.5 terabytes of storage,
128 megs of cash, etc., etc.
And then, XSAN, under $1,000 per node.
And unlimited capacity.
So.
So as some of you know, that's easily,
from a software standpoint,
that's a fifth to a tenth of the price of
comparable solutions on the market today.
And that's no exaggeration.
You can check it out with other vendors.
It's a fifth to a tenth the
price of comparable solutions.
And many solutions actually charge
you on the basis of the amount
of storage that you put in place.
Many solutions charge you extra for
the metadata controller software.
All of that stuff is built into Xsan.
So as I said, we're driving down the cost
of this infrastructure.
Xsan will be available
in the fall of 2004.
So we're going to have it out
to you in the fall of 2004.
Xsan is in beta today.
We made our first beta available at NAB.
There is a program up on the site,
apple.com slash xsan,
and there's a little link hidden over in
the corner referring to the beta program.
So you can go to apple.com slash
xsan slash beta if you want to
sign up for the beta program.
Now the great thing about this,
in a sense,
is we've had several hundred people
already sign up for the program
in the couple of months that
we've been making it available.
And I will tell you,
if you want to be part of the program,
this is why I'm fascinated that
there's been that many people sign up,
you have to have an XServe RAID,
you have to have a qualified
fiber channel switch,
and you have to have two of those.
So you have to have two or
more of either XServe G5s,
XServe G4s, or PowerMac G5s,
and you have to have our
fiber channel PCI cards.
So in reality, that's, you know, $30,000,
$40,000 worth of gear that you have to
take offline and use it for Xsan testing.
Yeah, I really appreciate it.
I know there's a lot of you
out there in the audience today
who are doing that with us,
and we really, really appreciate it.
If you are interested in doing that,
go sign up at the website.
And we'll get you the bits.
We are backlogged today
in terms of requests.
We've just been overwhelmed with them,
but we really appreciate that.